# Chapter 1: What is fieldwork

Here are some suggested _discussion topics_ for class:

* You're going to the field for the first time: what do you take?
* You have a week to record as much of a language as possible -- how do you proceed? Make a plan for what you would like to accomplish during your time.
* Imagine you are actually going to visit the country that your field methods class's consultant is from. Find out as much as you can about the country or the region they come from, and the language they speak.
* Do you think that linguists have a moral (or other type of) duty to work on undescribed language?
* Pick a language from [Glottolog](https://glottolog.org) that you don't know anything about and spend 20 minutes online trying to find out what materials are available.

## The term 'fieldwork'

I strongly recommend a discussion of [Tsikewa (2021)](https://muse.jhu.edu/article/840964) on what linguists do as part of 'fieldwork', what 'the field' is and how linguists relate to the communities they work with, what their goals are and the extent to which they are shared. The bibliography for this site has some further references under 'decolonization'. I also strongly suggest returning to the themes of this work throughout the semester -- it's not a topic that can be effectively addressed as a single point at the start (or end) of a course.

## Further suggested reading:

* The Left Hand of Darkness (Ursula Le Guin): Anthropology science fiction.
* What am I doing here? (Bruce Chatwin): travel writing.
* Balanda (My year in Arnhem Land) (Mary Ellen Jordan): Personal reiminiscences about the author's year working in a remote community and the problems she has adjusting.

When I wrote the first edition of this book, there weren't nearly as many resources on the internet for learning about people and places around the world. I've kept the relative lack of links (it's easier to maintain, for a start) but have provided some suggestions in places about points to look up.
